---
slug: before-front
title: Living areas before demolition
images:
  - src: before-living-room-fireplace
    width: 600
    height: 450
  - src: before-living-room-doorway
    width: 600
    height: 450
  - src: before-bedroom-1-fireplace
    width: 600
    height: 450
  - src: before-bedroom-1-closet
    width: 600
    height: 450
  - src: before-doorway-bedrooms
    width: 600
    height: 450
  - src: before-bedroom-2-closet
    width: 600
    height: 450
---
The first room you entered from the street was the living room, and a fake fireplace was the first thing that greeted you.

To its right was the door to the first bedroom, which you had to walk through to get to the kitchen and bathroom at the rear of the house.

The floor in this room was high-gloss wood parquet tiles adhered with asphalt to plywood that was attached to the original floor with roofing nails. Removing the parquet tiles was sort of like playing Minesweeper, but with a shovel.

<hr>

The first bedroom after the living room had a coal-burning fireplace and a closet in the corner that ate into the room’s already awkward layout.

Like many of these old fireplaces, this one was filled in with cement since burning coal indoors isn’t a very good idea. 

The flooring in this room was masonite on top of wallpaper. Yes, wallpaper.

The closet is on the opposite side of the fake fireplace in the living room and was the first amenity to be demolished.

<hr>

The second bedroom was actually a room-within-a-room defined by an 8' tall L-shaped wall, and you passed through the second bedroom to get to the kitchen.

There was also a small hallway between the room-within-a-room and the bathroom, which you entered via the doorway to the left of the shelves. The corner by the shelves smelled like soil due to how much cat’s claw had burrowed into this part of the house.

The floor in this room was linoleum on top of vinyl composite tile on top of lauan that had been stapled to the original flooring. Prying a thousand staples out one-by-one with nippers was a very Zen-like experience.